README.md, before:

# Synth

## Building [`synth`][synth]
Clone the repository with

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:openquery-io/synth.git
```

and navigate to the root of your local copy. 

### Using [Nix][nix]
To build [`synth`][synth] using the [Nix][nix] package manager, run

```bash
$ nix-build debug.nix
```

Once the build is complete, you will find the built binary under
`$PWD/result/bin`. Note that this is the build used for debugging. Should you
wish to compile the release build, run `nix-build release.nix` instead.

Alternatively, you can run traditional `cargo` builds through a [Nix shell][nix
shell]. For that, run

```bash
$ nix-shell
```

at the root of the repository. It will set up the same Rust toolchain used for
debug and release builds above as well as all required Python
dependencies. From there, you can just run `cargo build`, `cargo run` as usual.

### Using `cargo`
You need [cargo][cargo] and a recent version of the Rust [nightly][nightly] toolchain.

Run `cargo build` to build from source, `cargo install` to install the [`synth`][synth]
CLI, and `cargo test` to run the tests.

Note that because some tests rely on functionalities pulled over from `Python`
modules (such as [Faker][faker]) through the amazing [pyo3][pyo3], you will
need a local Python environment (at least 3.6) and the Faker module. Follow the
instructions over at [Faker][faker] to install Faker.


[faker]: https://github.com/joke2k/faker
[pyo3]: https://github.com/PyO3/pyo3
[nix]: https://nixos.org/download.html#nix-quick-install
[cargo]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/
[nightly]: https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install
[nix shell]: https://nixos.org/guides/nix-pills/developing-with-nix-shell.html
[synth]: https://github.com/openquery-io/synth

Commit message:

feat: Docker image
GitOrigin-RevId: 66fa2051fb772d6477f2fd64ad460ed788241849

README.md, after:

# Synth

## Building [`synth`][synth]
Clone the repository with

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:openquery-io/synth.git
```

and navigate to the root of your local copy. 

### Using [Nix][nix]
To build [`synth`][synth] using the [Nix][nix] package manager, run

```bash
$ nix-build debug.nix
```

Once the build is complete, you will find the built binary under
`$PWD/result/bin`. Note that this is the build used for
debugging. Should you wish to compile the release build, run
`nix-build release.nix` instead. Or, to build the `docker` image, run

```bash
$ nix-build docker.nix
```

Alternatively, you can run traditional `cargo` builds through a [Nix shell][nix
shell]. For that, run

```bash
$ nix-shell
```

at the root of the repository. It will set up the same Rust toolchain used for
debug and release builds above as well as all required Python
dependencies. From there, you can just run `cargo build`, `cargo run` as usual.

### Using `cargo`
You need [cargo][cargo] and a recent version of the Rust [nightly][nightly] toolchain.

Run `cargo build` to build from source, `cargo install` to install the [`synth`][synth]
CLI, and `cargo test` to run the tests.

Note that because some tests rely on functionalities pulled over from `Python`
modules (such as [Faker][faker]) through the amazing [pyo3][pyo3], you will
need a local Python environment (at least 3.6) and the Faker module. Follow the
instructions over at [Faker][faker] to install Faker.


[faker]: https://github.com/joke2k/faker
[pyo3]: https://github.com/PyO3/pyo3
[nix]: https://nixos.org/download.html#nix-quick-install
[cargo]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/
[nightly]: https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install
[nix shell]: https://nixos.org/guides/nix-pills/developing-with-nix-shell.html
[synth]: https://github.com/openquery-io/synth
