docs/docs/getting_started/core-concepts.md, before:

---
title: Core concepts
---

This section covers the core concepts found in Synth.

## Namespaces

The **namespace** is the top-level abstraction in Synth. Namespaces are the
equivalent of traditional [schemas][sql-schemas] in the world of relational
databases likes PostgreSQL. [References](#field-references) can exist between
fields in a given namespace, but never across namespaces.

Namespaces are simply directories from which `synth` reads a collection of
schema files. For example, a namespace `blog` could have the following
structure:

```
└── blog/
    ├── users.json
    └── posts.json 
``` 

Any file whose extension is `.json` in a namespace directory will be opened by
the [`synth generate`][synth-generate] subcommand and considered part of the
namespace's schema.

## Collections

Every namespace has zero or more **collections**. Collections are addressable by
their name and correspond to [tables][sql-tables] in the world of relational
databases. Strictly speaking, collections are a super-set of tables as they are
in fact arbitrarily deep JSON document trees.

Collections are represented in a namespace directory as JSON files. The *name*
of a collection (the way it is referred to by [`synth`][synth]) is its filename
without the extension. For example the file `bank/transactions.json` defines a
collection named `transactions` in a namespace `bank`.

For a more comprehensive example, let's imagine our namespace `bank` has a
collection `transactions` and another collection `users`. The directory
structure then looks like this:

```
└── bank/
    ├── transactions.json
    └── users.json 
```

Collections must be valid instances of the [`synth` schema][schema] that
describe an array. This means at the top-level all collections must
be [array generators][array-generators].

## Field references

A field reference is a special kind of fields that is useful for declaring
relations between different parts of a collection or different collections in
the same namespace.

A field reference can be specified by using the [same_as][same-as] generator
type.

The value of the `"ref"` field should be the address of the field you want to
refer to. A field address takes the
form `<collection name>.<level_0>.<level_1>...`. For example, say we have a
collection `users.json` containing the following schema:

```json synth[users.json]
{
  "type": "array",
  "length": {
    "type": "number",
    "subtype": "u64",
    "range": {
      "low": 1,
      "high": 4,
      "step": 1
    }
  },
  "content": {
    "type": "object",
    "username": {
      "type": "string",
      "faker": {
        "generator": "username"
      }
    },
    "credit_card": {
      "type": "string",
      "faker": {
        "generator": "credit_card"
      }
    },
    "id": {
      "type": "number",
      "subtype": "u64",
      "id": {}
    }
  }
}
```

A reference to the `username` field would have the
address `users.content.username`. If we want to add a reference to this field
from another collection we would simply add:

```json synth
{
  "type": "array",
  "length": 1,
  "content": {
    "type": "object",
    "username": {
      "type": "same_as",
      "ref": "users.content.username"
    }
  }
}
```

## Schema

The schema is the core data structure that you need to understand to be
productive with Synth. The schema represents your data model, it tells Synth
exactly how to generate data, which fields we need, what types and so on. This
is a little involved so there is a section devoted to just the [schema][schema].

## Importing datasets

Synth can ingest and build schemas on the fly with
the [`synth import`][synth-import] command.

## Generating data

To generate data from an existing namespace use
the [`synth generate`][synth-generate] command.

[`synth`][synth] uses a seedable pseudo-random source of entropy. By default,
the seed is set to a constant value of `0` using the
Rust-native [`rand::SeedableRng::seed_from_u64`][seedable-rng] function. This
means that, by default, the data that [`synth`][synth] generates is
deterministic: it is only a function of your schema files.

This behavior can be tuned (and the seed be changed, or randomized) using
the `--seed` or `--random` flag.

[synth]: cli.md

[sql-schemas]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/ddl-schemas.html

[sql-tables]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/sql-createtable.html

[same-as]: ../content/same-as

[schema]: schema.md

[array-generators]: ../content/array

[same-as]: ../content/same-as

[synth-import]: cli.md#command-import

[synth-generate]: cli.md#command-generate

[seedable-rng]: https://docs.rs/rand/0.8.4/rand/trait.SeedableRng.html#method.seed_from_u64

Commit message:

feat: adds --scenario to `generate`

docs/docs/getting_started/core-concepts.md, after:

---
title: Core concepts
---

This section covers the core concepts found in Synth.

## Namespaces

The **namespace** is the top-level abstraction in Synth. Namespaces are the
equivalent of traditional [schemas][sql-schemas] in the world of relational
databases likes PostgreSQL. [References](#field-references) can exist between
fields in a given namespace, but never across namespaces.

Namespaces are simply directories from which `synth` reads a collection of
schema files. For example, a namespace `blog` could have the following
structure:

```
└── blog/
    ├── users.json
    └── posts.json 
``` 

Any file whose extension is `.json` in a namespace directory will be opened by
the [`synth generate`][synth-generate] subcommand and considered part of the
namespace's schema.

## Collections

Every namespace has zero or more **collections**. Collections are addressable by
their name and correspond to [tables][sql-tables] in the world of relational
databases. Strictly speaking, collections are a super-set of tables as they are
in fact arbitrarily deep JSON document trees.

Collections are represented in a namespace directory as JSON files. The *name*
of a collection (the way it is referred to by [`synth`][synth]) is its filename
without the extension. For example the file `bank/transactions.json` defines a
collection named `transactions` in a namespace `bank`.

For a more comprehensive example, let's imagine our namespace `bank` has a
collection `transactions` and another collection `users`. The directory
structure then looks like this:

```
└── bank/
    ├── transactions.json
    └── users.json 
```

Collections must be valid instances of the [`synth` schema][schema] that
describe an array. This means at the top-level all collections must
be [array generators][array-generators].

## Field references

A field reference is a special kind of fields that is useful for declaring
relations between different parts of a collection or different collections in
the same namespace.

A field reference can be specified by using the [same_as][same-as] generator
type.

The value of the `"ref"` field should be the address of the field you want to
refer to. A field address takes the
form `<collection name>.<level_0>.<level_1>...`. For example, say we have a
collection `users.json` containing the following schema:

```json synth[users.json]
{
  "type": "array",
  "length": {
    "type": "number",
    "subtype": "u64",
    "range": {
      "low": 1,
      "high": 4,
      "step": 1
    }
  },
  "content": {
    "type": "object",
    "username": {
      "type": "string",
      "faker": {
        "generator": "username"
      }
    },
    "credit_card": {
      "type": "string",
      "faker": {
        "generator": "credit_card"
      }
    },
    "id": {
      "type": "number",
      "subtype": "u64",
      "id": {}
    }
  }
}
```

A reference to the `username` field would have the
address `users.content.username`. If we want to add a reference to this field
from another collection we would simply add:

```json synth
{
  "type": "array",
  "length": 1,
  "content": {
    "type": "object",
    "username": {
      "type": "same_as",
      "ref": "users.content.username"
    }
  }
}
```

## Schema

The schema is the core data structure that you need to understand to be
productive with Synth. The schema represents your data model, it tells Synth
exactly how to generate data, which fields we need, what types and so on. This
is a little involved so there is a section devoted to just the [schema][schema].

## Scenarios
Since [collections](#collections) correspond to closely to a database
collection, we will have numerous use cases which only uses a subset of the
collections in a namespace. This is were we will use scenarios.

Scenarios allow us to define a specific use case for the data in a namespace.
So expanding from our `bank` example, we can create a scenario which only 
generates data for users by having the following directory structure:

```
└── bank/
    ├── scenarios
    │   └── users-only.json
    ├── transactions.json
    └── users.json
```

This creates a scenario called `users-only` by having a `[scenario-name].json` 
inside the `scenarios/` directory inside our [namespace](#namespaces).
The definition for this scenario will look as follow:

```json synth-scenario[users-only.json]
{
  "users": {}
}
```

This definition explicitly marks the `users` collection for inclusion inside
this scenario.

## Importing datasets

Synth can ingest and build schemas on the fly with
the [`synth import`][synth-import] command.

## Generating data

To generate data from an existing namespace use
the [`synth generate`][synth-generate] command.

[`synth`][synth] uses a seedable pseudo-random source of entropy. By default,
the seed is set to a constant value of `0` using the
Rust-native [`rand::SeedableRng::seed_from_u64`][seedable-rng] function. This
means that, by default, the data that [`synth`][synth] generates is
deterministic: it is only a function of your schema files.

This behavior can be tuned (and the seed be changed, or randomized) using
the `--seed` or `--random` flag.

[synth]: cli.md

[sql-schemas]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/ddl-schemas.html

[sql-tables]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/sql-createtable.html

[same-as]: ../content/same-as

[schema]: schema.md

[array-generators]: ../content/array

[same-as]: ../content/same-as

[synth-import]: cli.md#command-import

[synth-generate]: cli.md#command-generate

[seedable-rng]: https://docs.rs/rand/0.8.4/rand/trait.SeedableRng.html#method.seed_from_u64
